so
[Applause]
scientists are ready to resurrect 10
extinct animals
there are two diametrically opposed
processes happening in the world today
some animals are on the brink of
extinction either because of climate
changes
or due to the activity of poachers at
the same time
scientists are almost ready to bring
back some species that have been long
gone how cool is that maybe in the not
so distant future
we'll see a living t-rex hardly
these dangerous creatures aren't on the
vip list but some of our most beloved
characters from the ice age movies
definitely
are before you find out who scientists
want to resurrect
be sure to subscribe to the bright side
of life we've got tons of videos coming
out
every single day so don't forget to ring
that little notification bell to turn on
post notifications
instead of using the controversial term
cloning scientists prefer to say
make unextinct tomato tomato the idea is
the same
an animal that died out thousands of
years ago can't be brought back to life
unless it's cloned and therein lies the
problem
for successful cloning scientists need
to have almost completely undamaged
animal dna
that's why some species are more likely
to be resurrected than others
those animals that died out not so long
ago are better candidates for
unextinction they might still be
preserved in museums or in permafrost
that form during the most recent
ice age for that reason dinosaurs aren't
going to appear anytime soon
too much water has gone under that
bridge but the following animals have
good chances to roam this planet
once again 10. the woolly mammoth
while most of the woolly mammoths died
out about ten thousand years ago
there was a population of about 500 to a
thousand of them living on wrangle
island as recent as 1650 bce
the woolly mammoth was roughly the size
of an african elephant
it had a shoulder height of 11 feet and
it weighed no less than six tons
their thick double coated fur as well as
their small ears
helped these fluffy elephants survive
harsh conditions and protected them from
heat loss and frostbite
many specimens have been discovered
frozen in the arctic tundra
so it seems quite possible to use their
dna to make new mammoths
researchers at harvard are planning to
create an embryo
that will be a hybrid of an asian
elephant and a woolly mammoth
this animal has already got the nickname
mammoth
it'll look like an elephant but with
smaller ears shaggy hair
and blood adapted for the cold
9. the saber-toothed tiger
pretty kitty was about the size of your
typical modern day big cat
it weighed from 200 to 600 pounds and
could get up to
13 feet long the saber-toothed tiger
usually had a muscular neck
bobbed tail powerful front legs and
dagger-like teeth that protruded from
the upper jaw
and could grow just under a foot long
just look at those teeth
now i can't help but think are you 100
sure we need to resurrect this creature
in any case
these felines are good candidates to be
brought back to life
they disappeared just 11 000 years ago
on top of that
their original habitat was pretty cold
so like the mammoth their fossils have
remained mostly intact
8. the moa the moa was a huge flightless
bird that looked like an ostrich
minus the wings we know of about 10
members of the moa family
some were no bigger than a turkey while
others reached a height of 10
feet making this bird the largest that
has ever inhabited our planet
moas were enthusiastically hunted just
600 years ago
this brought the history of the bird to
its end at the same time
due to such a recent time of extinction
remnants of their eggs and feathers can
still be found even today
actually moa dna has already been
extracted from discovered eggshells
7. the ground sloth
just take a gander at the skeleton of
this gigantic creature
you might assume it's some sort of a
huge bear but it is
in fact a sloth well a ground sloth to
be more precise and its closest
relatives are indeed the slow and almost
slumbering three-toed tree huggers we
know today
ground sloths are likely to be
successfully resurrected
since they were still walking the earth
about 8 000 years ago
even better some samples of their dna
have already been received from
undamaged hairs of this animal
on the other hand it might be a bit
difficult to find a surrogate mother for
the clone baby
after all the nearest modern day
relative of the ground sloth is too
small to carry a creature the size of a
bear
scientists are contemplating the
possibility of using an artificial wound
6. the dodo the poster child for animal
extinction this famous flightless bird
became extinct just 80 years after it
had been discovered
its only known habitat was mauritius
island where the dodo had been living
peacefully for who knows how long until
the dutch showed up in the 1590s
unfortunately because they'd never seen
a human before
they had no fear of people so it was all
too easy to club the creatures to death
these clumsy birds were quite big a
little over three feet tall
and heavy weighing up to 39 pounds
all these factors combined made them an
easy prey for humans
however the dodo may soon become
unextinct
scientists just need to collect some
more dna samples and implant them into
eggs of the dodo's closest relative
the pigeon
5. wooly rhinoceros besides the woolly
mammoth there's one more fluffy extinct
creature the woolly rhinoceros that
scientists want to bring back
this animal still lived in the arctic
snows pretty recently
about ten thousand years ago this furry
rhino is quite famous too
it often makes an appearance in ancient
cave arc like in the french chauvet
point arc
cave the woolly rhinoceros has the same
chances of being resurrected as the
mammoth
arctic permafrost has done a great job
at preserving quite a lot of specimens
4. the irish elk the irish elk
also called the giant deer was one more
animal that didn't quite manage to
survive the ice age
this creature mostly died out about 12
000 years ago
but researchers have discovered irish
elk fossils in siberia that are only
seven thousand to eight thousand years
old
and if you thought moose were big get a
load of this guy
it was seven feet tall just at its
shoulder and its antlers could extend
12 feet across the irish elk lived in
the north
and its preserved remains have already
been found in the melting permafrost
if they bring this giant back it'll be a
sight to see
[Music]
3. the baiji river dolphin
this poor creature went extinct in 2006
making it the first cetacean that's
whales dolphins and porpoises
to die out directly due to the negative
impact of human activity
it's obvious by now that since the
extinction is quite recent there's
a sea of dna samples at hand to make
resurrection pretty much a guaranteed
success
unfortunately there's one burning
question will the baiji river dolphin
have a home to come back to
even if it does become unextinct the
dolphins habitat the yangtze river
system
is extremely polluted
2. the siberian unicorn
don't let your imagination run too wild
this animal was more like a rhino than a
gracious horse
at first scientists believe that this
creature died out 350 thousand years ago
but a siberian unicorn skull discovered
in kazakhstan
proved that the animal had actually
disappeared just 29
000 years ago that's good news for
people who want to see a real unicorn
someday
i mean it is technically a unicorn sure
it's a far cry from the magical fairy
tale type but it did have one big horn
coming out of its skull
the siberian unicorn was 15 feet long
six feet tall and its weight reached a
whopping 9
000 pounds there you go folks that's
what a real unicorn looks like
sorry to put a damper on the fantasy
1. the neanderthal and
last but certainly not least but
definitely the most controversial
we have the neanderthal the idea of
resurrecting this species evokes the
most heated debate
the main reason is logistics since the
closest surrogate species would have to
be a human
on top of that neanderthals are believed
to be a subspecies of modern people
so while cloning them would be very
enlightening
it could also be quite unethical in any
case
bringing the neanderthal back would be
the easiest task of them all
scientists already have a map of its
genome it's not a question of whether or
not we can
but if we should what's your take on all
of this
should we bring back extinct species
which one would you want to see the most
let us know in the comments remember to
give this video a like if you found it
interesting
and subscribe to our channel there's
lots of cool stuff on the bright side of
life
you